# Computer Science

## GNULinux

### [cURL](curl.md)

* New: Fetch a website that requires auth.

    ```bash
    curl -u username:password [url]
    ```
    

### [Docker](docker.md)

* Reorganization: Re-organized sections.
* New: Build an image from a git repository.

    ```bash
    docker build -t tag https://github.com/docker/rootfs.git#[tag_or_branch]
    ```
    

* New: Remove unused data.

    Use `docker system prune`.
    
    And for automated clean up:
    
    Add the following line to `crontab -e`:
    
    ```cron
    0 3 * * * /usr/bin/docker system prune -f 2>&1 > /dev/null
    ```
    
    `-f` prevents manual confirmation from being asked.
    

### [Git](git.md)

* New: Pre-commit.

    [pre-commit/pre-commit](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit) is a
    framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.
    
    You can skip specific hooks with:
    
    ```bash
    SKIP=no-commit-to-branch pre-commit run --all-files
    ```
    
    Which is useful if a CI runs for the main branch so that it doesn't complain
    about running in it.
    

### [ImageMagick](imagemagick.md)

* New: Resize and compress a JPG image.

    Resize an image to width 1000 px and compress it with a JPG quality level of
    80% in place:
    
    ```bash
    mogrify -quality 1000 -resize 80 file.jpg
    ```
    

### [MariaDB](mariadb.md)

* New: Gain root access without the pass.

    ```bash
    mysqld_safe --skip-grant-tables --skip-networking &
    mysql -u root
    ```
    

### [netcat](netcat.md)

* New: Test TCP connections.

    ```bash
    nc -v -z -w 3 [host] [port]
    ```
    
    Options:
      * `-v`: verbose
      * `-z`: just check if the port is open and exit (without sending any data)
      * `-w 3`: 3 seconds timeout
    
    If it exists with return code 0, it means that the connection succeeded.
    

### [NGINX](nginx.md)

* New: Reverse proxy.

    ```
    location /something/ {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8000/;  # note the trailing slash here, it matters!
    }
    ```
    

### [OpenLDAP](openldap.md)

* New: Don't check TLS cert.

    Add `TLS_REQCERT never` to `/etc/openldap/ldap.conf`.
    

### [OpenSSL](openssl.md)

* New: Get information about a certificate.

    ```bash
    openssl s_client -connect [host]:[port] | openssl x509 -noout -dates
    ```
    

### [uptimed](uptimed.md)

* New: Uptimed.

    [`uptimed`](https://github.com/rpodgorny/uptimed) is an uptime record daemon
    keeping track of the highest uptimes a computer system ever had. It uses the
    system boot time to keep sessions apart from each other. `uptimed` comes with
    a console front-end to parse the records, which can also easily be used to
    show your records on a web page.
    
    To set up the program just install it with your package manager and it will
    start running in the background by default and keeping track of your uptime.
    
    To check the stats run `uprecords`.
    

### [neovim](neovim.md)

* Reorganization: Renamed vim to neovim.
* New: Jedi-vim awesome Python autocomplete.

### [wget](wget.md)

* New: Redirect output to stdout.

    ```bash
    wget -qO- [url]
    ```
    

## Programming

### [asyncio](asyncio.md)

* New: Python asyncio.

    [`asyncio`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html) is a library to
    write concurrent code using the `async`/`await` syntax.
    

### [asyncpg](asyncpg.md)

* New: Asyncpg.

    [MagicStack/asyncpg](https://github.com/MagicStack/asyncpg) is a fast
    PostgreSQL Database Client Library for Python/asyncio.
    

### [Basics](basics.md)

* New: Rename a dictionary key.

    ```python
    mydict[k_new] = mydict.pop(k_old)
    ```
    

* New: `str.count(sub[, start[, end]])`.

    Return the number of non-overlapping
    occurrences of substring `sub` in the range [`start`, `end`].
    

### [TDD](tdd.md)

* New: Test-driven development (TDD).

    Test-driven development (TDD) is a software development process consisting in
    small development cycles. The goal is clean code that works.
    Some advantages of this methodology are that it reduces stress in
    the development process and produces functional code that is a pleasure to
    work with.
    

* New: Exploratory coding (spiking).

    When learning a new tool or exploring a new possible solution, it’s often
    appropriate to leave the rigorous TDD process to one side, and build a little
    prototype without tests, or perhaps with very few tests. The goat doesn't mind
    looking the other way for a bit.
    
    For de-spiking, rewrite your prototype code using TDD.
    

### [Decorators](decorators.md)

* New: Overrides decorator.

    [`overrides`](https://github.com/mkorpela/overrides) is a decorator that
    verifies that a method that should override an inherited method actually does,
    and that copies the docstring of the inherited method to the overridden method.
    

### [Linters](linters.md)

* New: Pydocstyle missing docstrings overr.

    To allow missing docstrings when overriding methods you can use the
    [`@overrides`](overrides.md) decorator and the command line option
    `--ignore-decorator=overrides` or the setting `ignore_decorator = "overrides"`
    in the configuration file.
    

### [pip](pip.md)

* New: Pip-tools.

    [jazzband/pip-tools](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools) are a set of tools
    to keep your pinned Python dependencies fresh.
    
    Usage of `pip-compile` and of `pip-sync`.
    

### [pytest](pytest.md)

* New: Capture stdout/stderr output.

    Use the `capfd` fixture.
    
    Example:
    
    ```python
    def test_foo(capfd):
        foo()  # Writes "Hello World!" to stdout
        out, err = capfd.readouterr()
        assert out == "Hello World!"
    ```
    

### [re](re.md)

* New: Split a string by multiple delimiters.

    ```python
    import re
    re.split('; |, ', "string")
    ```
    

### [unittest](unittest.md)

* New: Patch an abstract class.

    To patch an abstract class to be able to instantiate it, without having to
    create a fake class that inherits from it, you can patch it as follows:
    
    ```python
    @patch.object(MyAbcClass, '__abstractmethods__', set())
    ```
    
    or if you want to patch some attributes and/or methods at the same time:
    
    ```python
    @patch.multiple(MyAbcClass, __abstractmethods__=set())
    ```
    

# Countries

## Turkey

### [Touristic visa](ankara.md)

* New: Mogan lake.
* New: Personal experience.

### [Eskişehir](eskisehir.md)

* New: Eskişehir travel guide.

# Other

* New: How to get rid of the spinning wheel.

    Run `exec` and `exec_always` with `--no-startup-id` if the command won't
    generate a window, otherwise the spinning wheel will get stuck and appear
    instead of the normal mouse icon.
    

* Reorganization: Moved articles to legal.
* New: Add Nina Zakharenko PyCon pdb talk.

    * [Talk: Nina Zakharenko - Goodbye Print, Hello Debugger! - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5AYIe-3cD-s)