# Computer Science

## Android

### [Xiaomi Redmi Note 9S](curtana.md)

* Improvement: OrangeFox recovery.

    Works better than previous PitchBlack.
    

## GNULinux

### [APT](apt.md)

* New: Install apt package from .deb.

### [Docker](docker.md)

* New: .dockerignore.

    Reduce building times by not copying unnecessary files and
    directories.
    

### [FFmpeg](ffmpeg.md)

* New: Record screen.

### [find](find.md)

* New: Find files larger than.

### [Git](git.md)

* New: Remove file but keep locally.

### [jmtpfs](jmtpfs.md)

* New: Mount andorid.

    [`jmtpfs`](https://github.com/kiorky/jmtpfs) is a FUSE and libmtp based
    filesystem for accessing MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) devices.
    

### [LUKS](luks.md)

* New: Change passphrase.

    ```bash
    cryptsetup luksChangeKey {device}
    ```
    

### [mdadm](mdadm.md)

* New: Extend RAID0.

### [mmv](mmv.md)

* New: Mmv command line utility.

    [`mmv`](https://github.com/itchyny/mmv) is a command line utility to
    move/copy/append/link multiple files by wildcard patterns.
    

### [Music](music.md)

* New: How to spot a fake FLAC file.

### [NeoMutt](neomutt.md)

* New: Use local timezone.

### [PDFtk](pdftk.md)

* New: Extract a page range of a PDF.

    To extract a page range of a PDF you could print to file using `evince`
    selecting a page range. The drawback of this method is that the text might be
    converted to images an thus no longer be searchable. A faster alternative that
    also keeps the text intact is using `pdftk`.
    

### [PostgreSQL](postgresql.md)

* New: Stop/kill a process.
* New: NULLIF function.

    The [`NULLIF(value1, value2)`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-conditional.html#FUNCTIONS-NULLIF)
    function returns a null value if `value1` equals `value2`; otherwise it returns
    `value1`.
    
    It can be useful for avoiding divisions by 0 (e.g. set `value2` to 0).
    

* New: Numeric data types reference.
* New: Add column.
* New: Concat_ws.
* New: Window functions.

    Window functions allow to perform the calculation across a set of rows related
    to the current row.
    

* New: UPDATE from subquery.
* New: Truncate date in PostgreSQL.

### [qutebrowser](qutebrowser.md)

* New: Greasemonkey plugins.

### [SSH](ssh.md)

* New: Create SSH key.

## Hardware

### [reMarkable](remarkable.md)

* New: Stream reMarkable over SSH.

## Programming

### [Plotly](plotly.md)

* New: Facet plots.
* Correction: Image link.
* New: Dash reverse proxy configuration.

# Countries

## Turkey

### [Touristic visa](touristic_visa.md)

* New: Turkey touristic visa.

### [Work](work.md)

* Correction: Work permit in Turkey for EU citizens.

# Other

* New: UPDATE.

    To update the values of some columns, use
    [UPDATE](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/sql-update.html).
    

* New: Add FLAC replaygain.
* New: Get weekday name from datetime.