# Computer Science

## GNULinux

### [Alacritty](alacritty.md)

* New: Alacritty.

    [alacritty/alacritty](https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty) is a
    cross-platform, OpenGL terminal emulator.
    

* New: Shortcuts.

    * `Ctrl+Shift+Space`: Enter vi mode.
    

* New: Interactive functionality SSH.

### [Bash](bash.md)

* New: Remove an environment variable.

    To remove an exported environment variable use:
    
    ```bash
    unset VARIABLE
    ```
    

### [Commitizen](commitizen.md)

* New: Retry failed commit.

### [Git](git.md)

* New: Remove sensitive data from a repository.

## Programming

### [Basics](basics.md)

* New: Most common built-in exceptions.
* New: Add datetime.timestamp() method.
* New: Change function default argument.
* New: Filter function.
* New: Dict.setdefault.

    [`setdefault(key[, default])`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#dict.setdefault):
    If `key` is in the dictionary, return its value. If not, insert key with a
    value of `default` and return `default`. `default` defaults to `None`.
    

* New: F-strings.
* New: Abstract base classes.

    [abstract base classes (ABCs)](https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-abstract-base-class)
    in Python, as outlined in [PEP 3119](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3119).
    

* New: Enum.

    An enumeration is a set of symbolic names (members) bound to unique, constant
    values. Within an enumeration, the members can be compared by identity, and
    the enumeration itself can be iterated over.
    

* New: Custom exceptions.

    To provide more insightful error messages related to our code, we can create
    custom exceptions. For example:
    
    ```python
    class ColorError(ValueError):
        def __init__(self, color):
            message = f"Invalid color {color}."
            super().__init__(message)
    ```
    

* New: String remove prefix suffix methods.

    * `str.removeprefix(prefix)`: If the string starts with the prefix string,
      return `str[len(prefix):]`. Otherwise, return a copy of the original string.
    * `str.removesuffix(suffix)`: If the string ends with the suffix string and
      that suffix is not empty, return `str[:-len(suffix)]`. Otherwise, return a
      copy of the original string.
    

* New: Current local date and time.
* New: TypedDict.

    Special construct to add type hints to a dictionary. At runtime it is a plain
    `dict`.
    
    Example:
    
    ```python
    class Point2D(TypedDict):
        x: int
        y: int
        label: str
    
    a: Point2D = {'x': 1, 'y': 2, 'label': 'good'}  # OK
    b: Point2D = {'z': 3, 'label': 'bad'}           # Fails type check
    ```
    

* New: Issubclass.

    [`issubclass(class, classinfo)`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#issubclass):
    Return `True` if `class` is a subclass (direct, indirect or virtual) of
    `classinfo`. A class is considered a subclass of itself. `classinfo` may be a
    tuple of class objects, in which case every entry in `classinfo` will be
    checked. In any other case, a `TypeError` exception is raised.
    

### [Docstrings](docstrings.md)

* New: Python docstrings.

    A docstring is a string literal that occurs as the first statement in a module,
    function, class, or method definition. Such a docstring becomes the `__doc__`
    special attribute of that object. See
    [PEP 257](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/)
    

### [FastAPI](fastapi.md)

* New: HTTP API from Python type hints.

    [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) is a modern, fast
    (high-performance), web framework for building HTTP APIs based on
    standard Python type hints.
    

* New: Add route to other module functions.

    There are two main ways of using this module, with the decorator
    `@app.get("{{route}}")` or with
    `FastAPI().add_route("{{route}}", {{function}})`.
    
    The first alternative is by far the most common, but if you want to separate
    the functions from the HTTP API entrypoint, you have to use the second option.
    
    The advantage of this alternative is that we can import the function
    from another module.
    

* Improvement: Wrapping imported functions.
* New: Dependency injection.

    A FastAPI decorated function can import the necessary arguments for other
    functions or objects.
    

* New: Default JSON encoder.

    The default the responses will be serialized to JSON. You can use a different
    JSON encoder than the default one, for example
    [ijl/orjson](https://github.com/ijl/orjson) which is more efficient and
    natively support serialization of dataclasses and more.
    

### [mypy](mypy.md)

* New: Mypy.

    [`mypy`](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is a static type checker for Python.
    

* New: Ignore line for type checking.

    To ignore type checking in one particular line of the code, add the comment
    `# type: ignore` at the end of that line
    

### [psycopg2](psycopg2.md)

* New: Dynamic SQL queries.
* New: Dynamic queries with list of vars.

### [pydantic](pydantic.md)

* New: Pydantic.

    [pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/): data validation and settings
    management using python type annotations.
    
    Enforces type hints at runtime, and provides user friendly errors when data is
    invalid.
    

* New: Validators.

    Custom validation and complex relationships between objects can be achieved
    using the `validator` decorator.
    

* New: Validators advanced use.
* New: Root_validator.

    Validation can also be performed on the entire model's data.
    

### [pytest](pytest.md)

* New: Mock environment variables.
* New: Parametrization.
* New: How to invoke pytest.

    Invoke with `python -m pytest` so that the current directory is
    included to the python path.
    

* New: Execute just one test or test class.
* New: Coverage.py.

    To see which parts of your code are executed when running the tests, you can
    use [Coverage.py](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/).
    

### [requests](requests.md)

* New: Python requests library.

    [Requests](https://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) is an elegant and
    simple HTTP library for Python, built for human beings.
    

### [statsmodels](statsmodels.md)

* New: Linear regression tutorial.

### [Snippets](snippets.md)

* New: Find in dictionary.

    Find first element  in dictionary that satisfies a condition:
    
    ```python
    next(item for item in {dict} if {{ condition }})
    ```
    

### [Typing](typing.md)

* New: Type.

    * `Type[Class]`: Accepts instances of the `Class` and the `Class` itself.
    

### [unittest](unittest.md)

* New: Python unittest and unittest.mock.

    The [`unittest`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html) unit
    testing framework was originally inspired by JUnit and has a similar flavor as
    major unit testing frameworks in other languages. It supports test automation,
    sharing of setup and shutdown code for tests, aggregation of tests into
    collections, and independence of the tests from the reporting framework.
    
    [`unittest.mock`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.mock.html) is a
    library for testing in Python. It allows you to replace parts of your system
    under test with mock objects and make assertions about how they have been used.
    

# Other

* New: Breakpoint().

     Since Python 3.7, we can just call `breakpoint()` and this will import
     [`pdb`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html)
     (or the debugger defined in the environment variable `PYTHONBREAKPOINT`) and
     set the breakpoint in that part of the code. This will stop the program
     execution once the breakpoint is reached. Then, an interactive console while
     appear.
    

* New: Order of abstractmethod classmethod.

    Use `@abstractmethod` before `classmethod`. See
    [Issue 16267](https://bugs.python.org/issue16267).
    

* New: Getattr.

    ```python
    getattr(object, name[, default])
    ```
    
    Return the value of the named attribute of `object`.`name` must be a string.
    If the string is the name of one of the object's attributes, the result is the
    value of that attribute. If the named attribute does not exist, `default` is
    returned if provided, otherwise `AttributeError` is raised.
    

* New: Weekdays enum.

    ```python
    Weekdays = IntEnum(
        "Weekdays",
        "Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday",
        start=0,
    )
    ```
    

* New: Str.strip().

    * `str.strip([chars])`: Return a copy of the string with the leading and
      trailing characters removed.