# Computer Science

## GNULinux

### [Bash](bash.md)

* New: Remove prefix/suffix from env variable.

    You can remove a fixed prefix and/or suffix from an environment variable
    with `${var#{prefix}}` and `${var%{suffix}}`.
    

### [Hushboard](hushboard.md)

* New: Mute your microphone while typing.
* New: Added i3wm auto startup conf.
* Correction: I3wm autostart configuration.

## [Hardware](t14_amd_gen1.md)

* New: Screen flashing colors.

    To fix it, open the laptop bottom case and unplug and then replug
    the battery and the BIOS button battery.
    

## Programming

### [Gotchas](gotchas.md)

* New: Double dimensional array gotcha.

    ```python
    [[]] * 3
    ```
    
    creates three copies of the same empty array inside another array so the
    modifications to any of them affect the rest equally.
    

# Cooking

## All recipes

### [Cheesecake](cheesecake.md)

* New: Basic cheesecake recipe.

# Countries

## Turkey

### [Work](work.md)

* New: Work in Turkey.

    Summary of the relevant laws for foreigners including the detailed
    application process and some traineeship and grants references.
    

# Other

* Correction: Added logo.
* Correction: Added RSS logo.
* New: Added initial content.
* New: Added index.
* Reorganization: GNU/Linux tools.
* New: Forking this wiki.

    Step by step guide on how to fork this
    wiki and customize it.
    

* Reorganization: GNU/Linux tools.
* New: Added Scrambled Exif.

    Android app to remove the metadata from your
    pictures before sharing them.
    

* New: Added link to Android apps.
* New: Added Python basics reference.

    Notes on Python basics such as built-in types and functions
    and file system interaction.
    

* New: Added script header snippet.
* New: Added basic pdb usage.

    `pdb` is a Python module for interactive source code debugging.
    

* New: Added PEP-8 and pprint basics.

    PEP-8 is a code style for python code. `pprint` is a Python
    module provides a capability to “pretty-print” arbitrary
    Python data structures in a form which can be used as input
    to the interpreter.
    

* Reorganization: Split Python file into subfiles.
* Reorganization: Caps in index and python directory.
* New: Eggplant kebap recipe.

    *Patlıcanlı kebap* is a Turkish dish that contains mainly
    eggplant and meat. It is generally cooked over a fire but
    it can be also be prepared in the oven.
    

* Correction: Several wrong paths.
* Correction: Missing nav entry.