# Computer Science

## GNULinux

### [Alacritty](alacritty.md)

* New: Alacritty.

    [alacritty/alacritty](https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty) is a
    cross-platform, OpenGL terminal emulator.


* New: Shortcuts.

    * `Ctrl+Shift+Space`: Enter vi mode.


* New: Interactive functionality SSH.

## Programming

### [Basics](python_basics.md)

* New: Issubclass.

    [`issubclass(class, classinfo)`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#issubclass):
    Return `True` if `class` is a subclass (direct, indirect or virtual) of
    `classinfo`. A class is considered a subclass of itself. `classinfo` may be a
    tuple of class objects, in which case every entry in `classinfo` will be
    checked. In any other case, a `TypeError` exception is raised.


### [FastAPI](fastapi.md)

* Improvement: Wrapping imported functions.
* New: Dependency injection.

    A FastAPI decorated function can import the necessary arguments for other
    functions or objects.


* New: Default JSON encoder.

    The default the responses will be serialized to JSON. You can use a different
    JSON encoder than the default one, for example
    [ijl/orjson](https://github.com/ijl/orjson) which is more efficient and
    natively support serialization of dataclasses and more.


### [Typing](typing.md)

* New: Type.

    * `Type[Class]`: Accepts instances of the `Class` and the `Class` itself.


### [unittest](unittest.md)

* New: Python unittest and unittest.mock.

    The [`unittest`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html) unit
    testing framework was originally inspired by JUnit and has a similar flavor as
    major unit testing frameworks in other languages. It supports test automation,
    sharing of setup and shutdown code for tests, aggregation of tests into
    collections, and independence of the tests from the reporting framework.

    [`unittest.mock`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.mock.html) is a
    library for testing in Python. It allows you to replace parts of your system
    under test with mock objects and make assertions about how they have been used.


# Other

* New: Getattr.

    ```python
    getattr(object, name[, default])
    ```

    Return the value of the named attribute of `object`.`name` must be a string.
    If the string is the name of one of the object's attributes, the result is the
    value of that attribute. If the named attribute does not exist, `default` is
    returned if provided, otherwise `AttributeError` is raised.


* New: Weekdays enum.

    ```python
    Weekdays = IntEnum(
        "Weekdays",
        "Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday",
        start=0,
    )
    ```


* New: Str.strip().

    * `str.strip([chars])`: Return a copy of the string with the leading and
      trailing characters removed.
