# Computer Science

## GNULinux

### [Git](git.md)

* New: Rename branch.

    ```bash
    git branch -m [old_branch_name] [new_branch_name]
    ```
    

### [MkDocs](mkdocs.md)

* New: Mkdocstrings add src to python path.
* New: Automate reference files generation.

    Instead of creating manually a markdown file for every source file with
    `::: package.module.file`, we can automate this with a script that will be
    run automatically on every site build.
    

### [NGINX](nginx.md)

* New: Serve static content.

    Differences between `root` and `alias`.
    

### [xclip](xclip.md)

* New: Copy pipe input to clipboard.

## Programming

### [pyTelegramBotAPI](pytelegrambotapi.md)

* New: How to get (group) chat id.

# Countries

## Turkey

### [Touristic visa](touristic_visa.md)

* New: After obtaining the r permit.

    * Notify my Turkish cell phone operator (updated my details from the app).
      Otherwise your line will be canceled after some months (source: the guy
      at Turkcell store).
    * Get access to e-devlet to do bureaucracy online. Go to PTT and ask for the
      code, you will receive it as an SMS to your Turkish phone number. The cost
      is 2 TL.
    * Go back to the Göç İdaresi to register your address (yes, again). You will
      need to bring some utility bill registered to your name. You can also go with
      the person you live with if the bills are under their name and they are
      already registered (nüfus) at that address. If they are not registered, they
      can try to do it from e-devlet or go to the population directorate (nüfus
      müdürlüğü).