# Computer Science

## GNULinux

### [PostgreSQL](postgresql.md)

* New: Check that a string is a valid timezone.

    Use the constraint `CHECK (now() AT TIME ZONE timezone IS NOT NULL)`. For
    example:
    
    ```psql
    CREATE TABLE locations (
        location_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
        name TEXT,
        timezone TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (now() AT TIME ZONE timezone IS NOT NULL)
    );
    ```
    

# Media

## Books

### [Atlas Shrugged](atlas_shrugged.md)

* New: Atlas Shrugged 1957 novel by Ayn Rand.

    Atlas Shrugged is a 1957 novel by Ayn Rand. It contains Rand's most extensive
    statement of Objectivism. The book depicts a dystopian United States in which
    private businesses suffer under increasingly burdensome laws and regulations.
    
    The book is more than a thousand pages long. There are audiobooks (~60h long)
    and a movie divided in three parts.
    

### [The Problem of Political Authority](the_problem_of_political_authority.md)

* New: The Problem of Political Authority.

    Modern states commonly deploy coercion in a wide array of circumstances in
    which the resort to force would clearly be wrong for any private agent. What
    entitles the state to behave in this manner? And why should citizens obey its
    commands? This book examines theories of political authority, from the social
    contract theory, to theories of democratic authorization, to fairness- and
    consequence-based theories. Ultimately, no theory of authority succeeds, and
    thus no government has the kind of authority often ascribed to governments.
    
    The author goes on to discuss how voluntary and competitive institutions could
    provide the central goods for the sake of which the state is often deemed
    necessary, including law, protection from private criminals, and national
    security. An orderly and livable society thus does not require acquiescence in
    the illusion of political authority.