# Computer Science

## [GNULinux](youtube-dl.md)

* New: Download only the audio in MP3.

    ```bash
    youtube-dl --extract-audio --audio-format mp3 [url]
    ```
    

### [demicode](demicode.md)

* New: Get BIOS version.

    ```bash
    dmidecode -t bios -q
    ```
    

### [neovim](neovim.md)

* New: Vim-surround shortcuts.

    * `ysiw"`: Surround the word under the cursor with double quotes.
    * `csiw"'`: Change the quotes surrounding the word under the cursor from double
      quotes to single quotes.
    * `ds'`: Delete the single quotes surrounding the word under the cursor.
    * `ysi)"`: Surround the text inside parentheses with double quotes.
    * `cs)]`: Change the parentheses surrounding the text inside parentheses to
      square brackets.
    

### [PostgreSQL](postgresql.md)

* New: Get the 20 slowest queries.

    ```psql
    SELECT substring(query, 1, 50) AS short_query,
                  round(total_time::numeric, 2) AS total_time,
                  calls,
                  round(mean_time::numeric, 2) AS mean,
                  round((100 * total_time / sum(total_time::numeric) OVER ())::numeric, 2) AS percentage_cpu
    FROM  pg_stat_statements
    ORDER BY total_time DESC
    LIMIT 20;
    ```
    

* New: Count NULL values.

    ```psql
    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM table WHERE column IS NULL;
    ```
    `COUNT` only conseiders non null values so use `COUNT(*)` (which counts the
    row) instead of `COUNT(column)` because the later would always return 0 since
    the filter gets only the null values of `column`.
    

## Theory

### [Algorithms](union_find.md)

* New: Add union-find data structure definition and algorithms.

    In computer science, a disjoint-set data structure, also called a union–find
    data structure or merge–find set, is a data structure that stores a collection
    of disjoint (non-overlapping) sets.
    
    It can be used to store the connected components of an undirected graph.
    
    An example could be:
    
    ```text
    
    0   1---2   3---4
    
    5---6   7   8   9
    ```
    
    * *N* is the number of nodes. Equals to *10* in the example.
    
    The data structure should support the following operations:
    
    * **initialize()**: Set the initial state of the graph.
    * **find(p, q)**: Are nodes **p** and **q** connected?
    * **union(p,q)**: Connect nodes **p** and **q**.